RFC/RFC001.md, before:

# RFC 0001 A stable and forwards compatible public key storage format

**Feature Name:** Stable public key storage

**Status:** Draft (first parts sketched)

**Type:** Enhancement

**Start Date:** 2018-06-14

**Author:** Simon Massey

**Related components:** Core

**GitHub issues:** 

* #136 GnuPG2 2.2 vs 2.1 conflicts in keybox format

## Summary

A new internal public key storage format that avoids forwards compatibility issues between GPG releases. This proposal will keep forwards compatibility with older versions of git-secret. 

## Motivation

GPG maintains backwards compatibility but not forwards compatibility. Users typically upgrade GPG but do not downgrade. This means that running a new GPG version will typially update the keyring storage files in a way that is not recognised by older versions of GPG. This is normally not a problem of typicaly GPG usage as users typically only upgrade and do not downgrade. It is a problem for git-secret as the keyring storage is committed to git and shared between users. Some uses can be using an older version of GPG that cannot open the upgraded keyring file. 

## Approach

git-secret will move away from using the keyring format as shared storage of public keys. Instead it will store public keys as seperate files. The export format is stable and forwards compatibile as it is normal for GPG uses to be running different versions and to exchange keys. Any future bugs that effect git-secret's ability to use the files will also effect typical GPG usage. Such bugs are likely to be fixed by the wider GPG community. 

git-secret may need to store and process meta-data about keys to make it efficient to work with keys that are individually stored. It will use the matchine readable ["colon listings format"](https://git.gnupg.org/cgi-bin/gitweb.cgi?p=gnupg.git;a=blob_plain;f=doc/DETAILS) for this purpose. 

It is anticipated that `bash` and `gawk` will be suffient to be able to impliment and use the new shared key storage format. 

## Design

The storage format will be: 

1. Keys will be stored in `~/.gitsecret/keys` in `gpg  --armor --export` format. The use of ascii armour rather than binary format is to make debugging of key issues easier. The file name of the key will be the "64 bit keyid" (field 5 of the `colon listings` format) with extension `.pub.gpg`
1. Key meta data will be stored alongside the key file in the `gpg --keyid-format long --with-colons` format. The file name will be the "64 bit keyid" (field 5 of the `colon listings` format) with extension `.gpg.colon`
1. A "keyring cache" will be create at `~/.gitsecret/cache` and this folder will be added to `.gitignore`. At this location a public keyring will be maintained on a per user bases and it won't be shared by users. 
1. A tombestone marker file with file name of the "64 bit keyid" with the extension `.killed` will be created by git-secret-killperson to mark a user as killed. 

The storage format will be used by git-secret-tell as follows: 

1. Scan the set of `.gpg.colon` to find all currently told identities. If the told identity is in the current list do nothing. 
1. If the told identity isn't listed run `gpg  --armor --export` against the users `$HOME` keyring. Run `--keyid-format long --with-colons` of the exported key. The result being two new files `<key-id>.pub.gpg` and `<key-id>.gpg.colon` in `~/.gitsecret/keys`

The storage format will be used by git-secret-hide as follows: 

1. The list of "64 bit keyid"s who are told will be computed from the `.gpg.colon` files. This will be checked against the list of "64 bit keyid"s in the "keyring cache" at `~/.gitsecret/cache`. Any missing keys are imported into the "keyring cache". It is anticipated that `grep` and `gawk` will be suffient to be perform this calculation. The code then runs as normal using the keyring cache. 

The storage format will be used by git-secret-killperson as follows: 

TBD

The storage format will be used by git-secret-xxx as follows: 

TBD

Forwards compatibility with older versions of git-secret will be mantained as follows: 

TBD

## Drawbacks

To maintain forward compatibility the approach requires the eixsting logic to kept working for a perod of time... TBD

## Alternatives

What other designs have been considered? Unknown. 

What is the impact of not doing this? Team members are locked out of their secrets broken when one user upgrades. This can go undetected until the victim needs the secrets in a hurry for production support. Bad things then happen. 

## Unresolved questions

What parts of the design are still to be done? See TBD points above.

Commit message:

mention that forward compatibility will be added later

RFC/RFC001.md, after:

# RFC 0001 A stable and forwards compatible public key storage format

**Feature Name:** Stable public key storage

**Status:** Draft (first parts sketched)

**Type:** Enhancement

**Start Date:** 2018-06-14

**Author:** Simon Massey

**Related components:** Core

**GitHub issues:** 

* #136 GnuPG2 2.2 vs 2.1 conflicts in keybox format

## Summary

A new internal public key storage format that avoids forwards compatibility issues between GPG releases. This proposal will keep forwards compatibility with older versions of git-secret. 

## Motivation

GPG maintains backwards compatibility but not forwards compatibility. Users typically upgrade GPG but do not downgrade. This means that running a new GPG version will typially update the keyring storage files in a way that is not recognised by older versions of GPG. This is normally not a problem of typicaly GPG usage as users typically only upgrade and do not downgrade. It is a problem for git-secret as the keyring storage is committed to git and shared between users. Some uses can be using an older version of GPG that cannot open the upgraded keyring file. 

## Approach

git-secret will move away from using the keyring format as shared storage of public keys. Instead it will store public keys as seperate files. The export format is stable and forwards compatibile as it is normal for GPG uses to be running different versions and to exchange keys. Any future bugs that effect git-secret's ability to use the files will also effect typical GPG usage. Such bugs are likely to be fixed by the wider GPG community. 

git-secret may need to store and process meta-data about keys to make it efficient to work with keys that are individually stored. It will use the matchine readable ["colon listings format"](https://git.gnupg.org/cgi-bin/gitweb.cgi?p=gnupg.git;a=blob_plain;f=doc/DETAILS) for this purpose. 

It is anticipated that `bash` and `gawk` will be suffient to be able to impliment and use the new shared key storage format. 

## Design

The storage format will be: 

1. Keys will be stored in `~/.gitsecret/keys` in `gpg  --armor --export` format. The use of ascii armour rather than binary format is to make debugging of key issues easier. The file name of the key will be the "64 bit keyid" (field 5 of the `colon listings` format) with extension `.pub.gpg`
1. Key meta data will be stored alongside the key file in the `gpg --keyid-format long --with-colons` format. The file name will be the "64 bit keyid" (field 5 of the `colon listings` format) with extension `.gpg.colon`
1. A "keyring cache" will be create at `~/.gitsecret/cache` and this folder will be added to `.gitignore`. At this location a public keyring will be maintained on a per user bases and it won't be shared by users. 
1. A tombestone marker file with file name of the "64 bit keyid" with the extension `.killed` will be created by git-secret-killperson to mark a user as killed. 

The storage format will be used by git-secret-tell as follows: 

1. Scan the set of `.gpg.colon` to find all currently told identities. If the told identity is in the current list do nothing. 
1. If the told identity isn't listed run `gpg  --armor --export` against the users `$HOME` keyring. Run `--keyid-format long --with-colons` of the exported key. The result being two new files `<key-id>.pub.gpg` and `<key-id>.gpg.colon` in `~/.gitsecret/keys`

Note that the steps to ensure that older versions of git-secret know about the newly told user will be outlined below. 

The storage format will be used by git-secret-hide as follows: 

1. The list of "64 bit keyid"s who are told will be computed from the `.gpg.colon` files. This will be checked against the list of "64 bit keyid"s in the "keyring cache" at `~/.gitsecret/cache`. Any missing keys are imported into the "keyring cache". It is anticipated that `grep` and `gawk` will be suffient to be perform this calculation. The code then runs as normal using the keyring cache. 

The storage format will be used by git-secret-killperson as follows: 

TBD

The storage format will be used by git-secret-xxx as follows: 

TBD

Forwards compatibility with older versions of git-secret will be mantained as follows: 

TBD

## Drawbacks

To maintain forward compatibility the approach requires the eixsting logic to kept working for a perod of time... TBD

## Alternatives

What other designs have been considered? Unknown. 

What is the impact of not doing this? Team members are locked out of their secrets broken when one user upgrades. This can go undetected until the victim needs the secrets in a hurry for production support. Bad things then happen. 

## Unresolved questions

What parts of the design are still to be done? See TBD points above.
