.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!-- Thanks for sending a pull request!

Here's how it's done:
0. If you are planning a large feature, please, discuss it first in a separate issue.
   See also [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/sobolevn/git-secret/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) if you haven't already.
1. Make sure that you open your pull request against the `master` branch
2. Make sure that your code has the same style as the surrounding code and git-secret in general
3. If you are adding or changing features, please add tests that cover the new behavior (in addition to the unchanged behavior if appropriate)
4. Make sure that tests pass

Please make sure you click the link above to view the contribution guidelines, then fill out the blanks below. -->

What does this implement/fix? Explain your changes.
---------------------------------------------------
…

Does this close any currently open issues?
------------------------------------------
…

Any relevant logs, error output, etc?
-------------------------------------
(If it’s long, please paste to https://ghostbin.com/ and insert the link here.)

Any other comments?
-------------------
…

Commit message:

mention shellcheck and 'make lint'
  [.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md]

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!-- Thanks for sending a pull request!

Here's how it's done:
0. If you are planning a large feature, please, discuss it first in a separate issue.
   See also [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/sobolevn/git-secret/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) if you haven't already.
1. Make sure that you open your pull request against the `master` branch
2. Make sure that your code has the same style as the surrounding code and git-secret in general
3. Make sure your code passes using `shellcheck` with `make lint`
4. If you are adding or changing features, please add tests that cover the new behavior (in addition to the unchanged behavior if appropriate)
5. Make sure that all tests pass

Please make sure you click the link above to view the contribution guidelines, then fill out the blanks below. -->

What does this implement/fix? Explain your changes.
---------------------------------------------------
…

Does this close any currently open issues?
------------------------------------------
…

Any relevant logs, error output, etc?
-------------------------------------
(If it’s long, please paste to https://ghostbin.com/ and insert the link here.)

Any other comments?
-------------------
…
