installation.md, before:

---
layout: default
---

# Installation

## Dependencies

`git-secret` relies on two dependencies: `git` and `gpg`. Download and install them before using this project. `git-secret` is tested to work with:

```
git version 2.7.0
gpg (GnuPG) 1.4.20
```

## Supported platforms

`git-secret` is tested with `Mac OS X` >= 10.9, `Ubuntu` >= 14.04, `Debian` >= 8.3, `Fedora` / `CentOS`, and `Windows` >= 10 using `WSL`.
You can check the full list of automated test platforms
[here](https://github.com/sobolevn/git-secret/blob/master/.github/workflows/test.yml).

We are always interested in getting `git-secret` working at tested on additional systems.
If you get `git-secret` working on a new system and the tests pass for you, 
you can add a Github Action to test your platform to that file. 
Also we welcome improvements to tests or `git-secret` code for any platform.

## Installation process

There are several ways to install `git-secret`, depending on your OS and distribution.
They generally all have different installation processes, and we only go into 
a little explanation, because describing how to install the pre-requisites on all
systems is currently outside the scope of this document.

---

### Homebrew

This is a packaging system for OSX. To install `git-secret` on OSX, you can install
`homebrew` and then use:

`brew install git-secret`

---

### `deb` package

`deb` is a packaging system for [Debian](https://www.debian.org/) and related linux
distributions.

You can find the `deb` repository [here](https://gitsecret.jfrog.io/artifactory/git-secret-deb/).
Pre-requirements: make sure you have installed `apt-transport-https` and `ca-certificates`

```bash
{% include install-deb.sh %}
```

---

### `rpm` package

`rpm` is a packaging system for Fedora, CentOS, and other Red Hat based linux distributions.
You can find the `rpm` repository [here](https://gitsecret.jfrog.io/artifactory/git-secret-rpm/).

```bash
{% include install-rpm.sh %}
```

---

### Alpine

You can find the `apk` repository [here](https://gitsecret.jfrog.io/artifactory/git-secret-apk/).
See list of supported architectures [here](https://github.com/sobolevn/git-secret/blob/master/utils/apk/meta.sh)

```bash
{% include install-apk.sh %}
```

---

### Arch Linux

The _Arch_ way to install git-secret is to use the directions for
"Installing Packages" at [Arch User Repository Documentation](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository#Installing_packages)
along with the `PKGBUILD` file from the [git-secret Arch Linux Package](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/git-secret/)

You can also install from the [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/) using your helper of choice by
installing the package `git-secret`, for example using [yay](https://github.com/Jguer/yay)

```bash
yay -S git-secret
```

---

### Windows

`git-secret` depends on many unix tools and features that Windows systems do not usually
include by default.  Therefore to get `git-secret` running on Windows you have to 
install a these tools, probably using of the toolkits described below. 
(Each has a different install and setup process).

Then, once the pre-requisite unix tools are installed,
you can use the Manual Installation instructione below to 
manually install `git-secret` (see below).  

Some options to install the required unix tools on your windows system include
WSL, CYGWIN, MSYS, and Mingw-w64 (which may have some overlap).

Documenting how each is installed and operates is beyond the scope of this document, 
so we will cover the topic in broad strokes. Improvements to this documentation
(or any other git-secret documentation) are welcome. 

Again, after you install the unix tools needed, you can install 
`git-secret` on windows using the `Manual Installation` steps below.

#### WSL

Perhaps the easiest way to get `git-secret` operating on windows is using `WSL`
(if your system supports it). 
You'll need to install these additional packages: `gnupg make man git gawk file`.
Here are instructions to install [WSL](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install)

We have successfully set up automated testing of `git-secret` on `WSL`, 
so we are confident this method works.

#### Mingw-w64

One way to install the prerequisites for `git-secret` on Windows is to use 
[Mingw-w64](https://www.mingw-w64.org/) and install the needed packages.
By default, the `Mingw-w64` installation will be saved to `C:\msys64`. You'll need to 
install `make` and probably other tools such as `gnupg`, `make`, `man`, `git`, and `gawk`. 
(This list might not be complete). Again we have automated testing of `git-secret` on `WSL`
so we are confident this method works.

#### MSYS and Cygwin

It should also be possible to use `git-secret` with [MSYS](https://www.msys2.org/)
or [Cygwin](https://www.cygwin.com/), and we have gotten _most_ of the way to getting
`git-secret`'s self-tests running on these setups with Windows (see 
[windows-related issues](https://github.com/sobolevn/git-secret/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+windows).

If you can help with getting the tests to work on additional platforms, and/or updating
these docs please do!  We welcome contributions `git-secret`, and to this documentation 
(as well as to other git-secret docs or code).

---

### Manual Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/sobolevn/git-secret.git git-secret
cd git-secret && make build
PREFIX="/usr/local" make install
```

Note that you can change prefix to be any directory you subsequently include in in your `PATH`
environment variable. We generally recommend you stick to the the default 
install locations for simplicity, but if you know what you're doing you are welcome to change it.

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ sobolevn/git-secret@df6bd15e210d14d1426e3e693c3017d07584cbad 🚀

installation.md, after:

---
layout: default
---

# Installation

## Dependencies

`git-secret` relies on two dependencies: `git` and `gpg`. Download and install them before using this project. `git-secret` is tested to work with:

```
git version 2.7.0
gpg (GnuPG) 1.4.20
```

## Supported platforms

`git-secret` is tested with `Mac OS X` >= 10.9, `Ubuntu` >= 14.04, `Debian` >= 8.3, `Fedora` / `CentOS`, and `Windows` >= 10 using `WSL`.
You can check the full list of automated test platforms
[here](https://github.com/sobolevn/git-secret/blob/master/.github/workflows/test.yml).

We are always interested in getting `git-secret` working at tested on additional systems.
If you get `git-secret` working on a new system and the tests pass for you, 
you can add a Github Action to test your platform to that file. 
Also we welcome improvements to tests or `git-secret` code for any platform.

## Installation process

There are several ways to install `git-secret`, depending on your OS and distribution.
They generally all have different installation processes, and we only go into 
a little explanation, because describing how to install the pre-requisites on all
systems is currently outside the scope of this document.

---

### Homebrew

This is a packaging system for OSX. To install `git-secret` on OSX, you can install
`homebrew` and then use:

`brew install git-secret`

---

### `deb` package

`deb` is a packaging system for [Debian](https://www.debian.org/) and related linux
distributions.

You can find the `deb` repository [here](https://gitsecret.jfrog.io/artifactory/git-secret-deb/).
Pre-requirements: make sure you have installed `apt-transport-https` and `ca-certificates`

```bash
{% include install-deb.sh %}
```

---

### `rpm` package

`rpm` is a packaging system for Fedora, CentOS, and other Red Hat based linux distributions.
You can find the `rpm` repository [here](https://gitsecret.jfrog.io/artifactory/git-secret-rpm/).

```bash
{% include install-rpm.sh %}
```

---

### Alpine

`apk` is a packaging system for Alpine.
You can find the `apk` `git-secret` packaging 
[here](https://gitsecret.jfrog.io/artifactory/git-secret-apk/),
and you can see a list of supported architectures 
[here](https://github.com/sobolevn/git-secret/blob/master/utils/apk/meta.sh)

```bash
{% include install-apk.sh %}
```

---

### Arch Linux

The _Arch_ way to install git-secret is to use the directions for
"Installing Packages" at [Arch User Repository Documentation](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository#Installing_packages)
along with the `PKGBUILD` file from the [git-secret Arch Linux Package](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/git-secret/)

You can also install from the [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/) using your helper of choice by
installing the package `git-secret`, for example using [yay](https://github.com/Jguer/yay)

```bash
yay -S git-secret
```

---

### Windows

`git-secret` depends on many unix tools and features that Windows systems do not usually
include by default.  Therefore to get `git-secret` running on Windows you have to 
install a these tools, probably using of the toolkits described below. 
(Each has a different install and setup process).

Then, once the pre-requisite unix tools are installed,
you can use the Manual Installation instructione below to 
manually install `git-secret` (see below).  

Some options to install the required unix tools on your windows system include
WSL, CYGWIN, MSYS, and Mingw-w64 (which may have some overlap).

Documenting how each is installed and operates is beyond the scope of this document, 
so we will cover the topic in broad strokes. Improvements to this documentation
(or any other git-secret documentation) are welcome. 

Again, after you install the unix tools needed, you can install 
`git-secret` on windows using the `Manual Installation` steps below.

#### WSL

Perhaps the easiest way to get `git-secret` operating on windows is using `WSL`
(if your system supports it). 
You'll need to install these additional packages: `gnupg make man git gawk file`.
Here are instructions to install [WSL](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install)

We have successfully set up automated testing of `git-secret` on `WSL`, 
so we are confident this method works.

#### Mingw-w64

One way to install the prerequisites for `git-secret` on Windows is to use 
[Mingw-w64](https://www.mingw-w64.org/) and install the needed packages.
By default, the `Mingw-w64` installation will be saved to `C:\msys64`. You'll need to 
install `make` and probably other tools such as `gnupg`, `make`, `man`, `git`, and `gawk`. 
(This list might not be complete). Again we have automated testing of `git-secret` on `WSL`
so we are confident this method works.

#### MSYS and Cygwin

It should also be possible to use `git-secret` with [MSYS](https://www.msys2.org/)
or [Cygwin](https://www.cygwin.com/), and we have gotten _most_ of the way to getting
`git-secret`'s self-tests running on these setups with Windows (see 
[windows-related issues](https://github.com/sobolevn/git-secret/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+windows).

If you can help with getting the tests to work on additional platforms, and/or updating
these docs please do!  We welcome contributions `git-secret`, and to this documentation 
(as well as to other git-secret docs or code).

---

### Manual Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/sobolevn/git-secret.git git-secret
cd git-secret && make build
PREFIX="/usr/local" make install
```

Note that you can change prefix to be any directory you subsequently include in in your `PATH`
environment variable. We generally recommend you stick to the the default 
install locations for simplicity, but if you know what you're doing you are welcome to change it.
