man/man1/git-secret-init.1.md, before:

git-secret-init - initializes git-secret repository.
====================================================

## SYNOPSIS

    git secret init


## DESCRIPTION
`git-secret-init` should be run inside a `git` repo to set up the .gitsecret directory and initialize the repo for git-secret.
Until repository is initialized with `git secret init`, all other `git-secret` commands are unavailable.

If a `.gitsecret` directory already exists, `git-secret-init` exits without making any changes.
Otherwise, a .gitsecret directory is created with appropriate sub-directories,
and patterns to ignore `git-secret`'s `random_seed_file`
and not ignore `.secret` files are added to `.gitignore`.

(See [git-secret(7)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret) for information about renaming the .gitsecret
folder with the `SECRETS_DIR` environment variable, and changing the extension `git-secret` uses for secret files
with the `SECRETS_EXTENSION` environment variable.


## OPTIONS

    -h  - shows this help.


## MANUAL

Run `man git-secret-init` to see this note.


## SEE ALSO

[git-secret-usage(1)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret-usage), [git-secret-tell(1)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret-tell)

Commit message:

in verbose mode, show some gnupg perm warnings (#812)
* set git-secret keys dir to 700 perms, for #811
* update changelog
* test improvements
* clean up comments
* remove unused code
* update git-secret-init man page
* document change to git-secret-init

man/man1/git-secret-init.1.md, after:

git-secret-init - initializes git-secret repository.
====================================================

## SYNOPSIS

    git secret init


## DESCRIPTION
`git-secret-init` should be run inside a `git` repo to set up the .gitsecret directory and initialize the repo for git-secret.
Until repository is initialized with `git secret init`, all other `git-secret` commands are unavailable.

If a `.gitsecret` directory already exists, `git-secret-init` exits without making any changes.
Otherwise, 

* `.gitignore` is modified to ignore `git-secret`'s `random_seed_file`,
and to not ignore `.secret` files,

* a .gitsecret directory is created with the sub-directories /keys and /paths,

* The `.gitsecret/keys` subdirectory permissions are set to 700 to make gnupg happy.

(See [git-secret(7)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret) for information about renaming the .gitsecret
folder with the `SECRETS_DIR` environment variable, and changing the extension `git-secret` uses for secret files
with the `SECRETS_EXTENSION` environment variable.


## OPTIONS

    -h  - shows this help.


## MANUAL

Run `man git-secret-init` to see this note.


## SEE ALSO

[git-secret-usage(1)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret-usage), [git-secret-tell(1)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret-tell)
