man/man1/git-secret-add.1.md, before:

git-secret-add - starts to track added files.
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

    git secret add [-v] [-i] <pathspec>...


## DESCRIPTION
`git-secret-add` adds a filepath(s) into `.gitsecret/paths/mapping.cfg`
and ensures the filepath is mentioned `.gitignore`.

When adding files to encrypt, `git-secret-add` (as of 0.2.6) will ensure that they are ignored by `git` by mentioning
them in `.gitignore`, since they must be secure and not be committed into the remote repository unencrypted.

If there's no users in the `git-secret`'s keyring, when adding a file, an exception will be raised.

Use the `git secret add` command to add filenames to this file.
It is not recommended to add filenames directly into `.gitsecret/paths/mapping.cfg`.

(See [git-secret(7)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret) for information about renaming the .gitsecret
folder using the SECRETS_DIR environment variable.

## OPTIONS

    -v  - verbose, shows extra information.
    -i  - does nothing, adding paths to .gitignore is now the default behavior.
    -h  - shows this help.


## MANUAL

Run `man git-secret-add` to see this note.


## SEE ALSO

[git-secret-init(1)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret-init), [git-secret-tell(1)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret-tell),
[git-secret-hide(1)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret-hide), [git-secret-reveal(1)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret-reveal)

Commit message:

Cleanups 2022 04 (#824)
* change file desc we use to pass gnupg info
* improve content and phrasing in docs
* improve docs about locations of private/public keys
* update changelog

man/man1/git-secret-add.1.md, after:

git-secret-add - starts to track added files.
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

    git secret add [-v] [-i] <pathspec>...


## DESCRIPTION
`git secret add` - tells `git secret` which files hold secrets,
and adds filepath(s) into `.gitsecret/paths/mapping.cfg`.
(It is not recommended to alter `.gitsecret/paths/mapping.cfg` manually.)

As of 0.2.6, this command also ensures the filepath is mentioned `.gitignore`
as the contents are now considered secret and should not be committed into the repository unencrypted.

The `add` action will fail unless there are already users in `git-secret`'s keyring.


(See [git-secret(7)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret) for information about renaming the .gitsecret
folder using the SECRETS_DIR environment variable.

## OPTIONS

    -v  - verbose, shows extra information.
    -i  - does nothing, adding paths to .gitignore is now the default behavior.
    -h  - shows this help.


## MANUAL

Run `man git-secret-add` to see this document.


## SEE ALSO

[git-secret-init(1)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret-init), [git-secret-tell(1)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret-tell),
[git-secret-hide(1)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret-hide), [git-secret-reveal(1)](https://git-secret.io/git-secret-reveal)
